
<br>
<br> Abstract In Award Winners and Abstracts of the 35th Annual Symposium of The Protein Society. Protein Society Journal. Volume 30, Issue S1. 
<h3 align="center">Abstract</h3>
<h3 align="center">Investigating the Interaction between SARS-CoV-2 NSP15 and a Human E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Using In Silico Methods</h3> 
Patients with acute respiratory distress due to SARS-CoV-2 infection exhibit hyper-inflammatory response and Type 1 Interferon (IFN-1) deficiency. Research has shown that RNF41, a human E3 ubiquitin ligase, controls inflammation and IFN-1 production by binding to USP8, MYD88, and TBK1 in the immune signaling pathways. Studies indicate that SARS-CoV-2 NSP15 in addition to cleaving the viral RNA to evade the human immune system also suppresses the immune response; however, the suppression mechanism hasn’t been investigated at a molecular level. We hypothesized that SARS-CoV-2 NSP15 can bind to RNF41 and inhibit RNF41 from regulating the immune signaling pathways. Molecular docking of RNF41 C-terminal domain (CTD) to MYD88, TBK1, USP8, and five NSP15 surfaces were performed. Previously unknown structure of RNF41 Zinc-finger domain (ZFD) was generated using homology modeling. Interaction surfaces sites on RNF41 ZFD were determined by developing computational techniques to explore ~170,000 structures in the PDB to filter structures having a structural alignment score of < 2 Å with RNF41 ZFD and subsequently docked to NSP15. Results show that NSP15, TBK1, MYD88, and USP8 bind to the same residues of RNF41 CTD. NSP15 has the highest binding affinity to RNF41 CTD. Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations on the binding of RNF41 CTD with NSP15 reaches equilibrium at 7 ns with 83% of the binding residues having lower than average fluctuations which indicate that the binding is stable. This confirmed our hypothesis that NSP15 can bind to RNF41 CTD which can disrupt the immune system's response. Further, NSP15’s interaction surfaces encompassing two protomers were located at least 10 Å away from its catalytic site, indicating NSP15’s cleaving function could continue even when NSP15 binds to RNF41 CTD. These results advance our understanding of how NSP15 interferes with the immune signaling pathways and will aid in the development of new antiviral therapeutics.
